---
layout: post
title:  "Comenzar con Processing"
description: El tutorial primero de Processing.
date:   2020-02-15 16:30:00 +0530
categories: Español Processing
exerpt_seperator: <!--more-->
---

En este publicación, voy a explicar cómo descargar Processing en Windows y Linux, y conceptos básicos y actividades tambien.
<!--more-->
Para cualquier que lea esto que espera competir en una competencia de FTC, recomiendo que uses FTC Blocks, porque es mucho mas fácil, pero todavía recomiendo que sigas aprender básicos de programar, porque te ayudaría entender Blocks y hacer programas de Java cuando estás listo. [Aquí](https://www.firstinspires.org/resource-library/ftc/technology-information-and-resources) están algos paginas para ayudarte con Blocks o Onbot, no sé mucho sobre esas programas.
---

# Descargar Processing

Processing es un IDE y biblioteca de gráficos de Java. *making it easy to learn Java without having to worry about complex configuration*. Se lo puede descargar [aquí](https://processing.org/download/) con instrucciones de instalación simples. 

---

# Básicos

Aquí vamos a dicutir some of the very basic programming principles. We will work with integers, and learn about if/else statements.

---

## Basic format

This is the basic format of code in processing

```java
void setup(){
  //Code to be run once after start is pressed
}

void draw(){
  //Code to be run multiple times
}
```

The above code has comments (written after //) to explain what each section does, each section is called a method. Now that you know the basic format, let's talk about if and else statements.

Let's look at a quick sketch, and go over a few more things 


```java
//Declare variables before any methods
int variable = 10;

void setup(){
//nothing to run in setup for this sketch
}

void draw(){
    //print what variable was set to, in this case 10, reapeatedly
    println(variable);
}
```

There are a few things that are important to notice in the above sketch:

* There is a ';' after commands
   * This is because in Java, we could write all code on one line, e.g `void draw(){println(variable);}` So the computer doesn't really "see" when we end a line, it's just so we can read it more easily, the computer only sees the end of a line when we type ';'s
* There is no ';' after `void draw()` or `void setup()`
    * This is because they have '{'s after them. These aren't commands, but sections of code, so instead of a ';' following it, the '{}'s contain the code within it.
* The `int variable = 10;` outside of the methods
    * This 'declares' the variables, all it does is let the computer know what variables are being used later in the code. It begins with 'int' because the variable is an integer.

## If/Else statements

If you are familiar with any other programming language, this should be very easy for you, the basic setup of if and else statements is:

```java

if(//condition){
    //run this code
}

```

So lets look at an example (we will also work with real graphics, not just the console):

```java
void setup(){
  size(500, 500); //set the size of the graphics window to 500 * 500
}

void draw(){  
  if(mousePressed){ //if the mouse is pressed...
    background(0);
    //...draw a rectangle at the coordinates (250, 250), with a width and height of 100-
    rect(250, 250, 100, 100);  
  }
  else{ //if the mouse is not pressed...
    //...draw the background to cover up the previous rectangle
    background(0);
  }
}
```

In setup we use the  `size` function, which sets the size of the graphics window.
In draw, we use an if statement. If the condition between the ()s is true, then it runs the code between the {}s, if it is not true, it moves onto the next section of code, between the {}s after "else". Try replacing the x and y coordinates of the rectangle with `mouseX` and `mouseY` and see what happens.

---

I encourage you to try changing variables and experimenting with all of these examples, it is hard to learn if you do not experiment yourself.
That is all for this post, I hope that this was helpful, and in the next post I will talk about slightly more complex concepts, mathematical operators, and else if statments.